{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Reflection\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Building this mini blockchain gave me a 
\f0\b practical understanding
\f1\b0  of hashing, immutability, and the Proof-of-Work (PoW) mechanism. I learned that a block\'92s hash is derived not only from its own data but also from the previous block\'92s hash. This linking ensures that even a small modification, such as changing a transaction amount, invalidates all subsequent blocks \'97 clearly demonstrating the concept of 
\f0\b immutability
\f1\b0 . It was insightful to see how quickly a manipulated chain fails during verification.\
Implementing PoW helped me understand how 
\f0\b computational security
\f1\b0  is enforced in blockchains. By requiring the block\'92s hash to begin with a specific number of leading zeros, miners must perform numerous hash computations before finding a valid solution. Increasing the difficulty from 
\f0\b 3 to 5
\f1\b0  caused a significant rise in 
\f0\b nonce values
\f1\b0  and 
\f0\b mining time
\f1\b0 , showing how PoW directly controls the cost and difficulty of tampering. To alter a blockchain, an attacker would need to 
\f0\b re-mine all subsequent blocks
\f1\b0  faster than the rest of the network, which is practically infeasible.\
I was especially surprised by how 
\f0\b resource-intensive
\f1\b0  even a simple blockchain can become. With only five blocks and a difficulty of 5, my CPU usage spiked noticeably. This made me realize why real-world blockchains like 
\f0\b Bitcoin
\f1\b0  require powerful mining hardware. Additionally, I understood the importance of 
\f0\b consensus mechanisms
\f1\b0  \'97 without PoW, anyone could easily modify the chain.\
Overall, this project gave me a 
\f0\b deeper appreciation
\f1\b0  of how hashing, immutability, and PoW work together to ensure the 
\f0\b security, trust, and decentralization
\f1\b0  of blockchain networks.\
}